---
layout: page
title:  "Course Info - Berea Splash and Dash"
date:   2015-04-08
image: "bg"
permalink: course
---
How long is the race?

|	Age |	Swim		  |Run  |
|-----|-----------|-----|
|7-9 	|100 meters |	1 K |
|10-11|	100 meters|	1 K |
|12-15|	200 meters|	2 K |

### Swim Course

The swim is in the 8-lane, heated, outdoor 25-meter pool at The City of Berea Pool. Lifeguards will be poolside along with a doctor. Each child will start their race in the water, no diving or jumping is allowed. Athletes will swim the length of the pool, touch the wall (flip turns are allowed), go underneath the lane rope, and swim back in the new lane. On exit of the water there will be a short run on concrete down to the transition “IN”, and shoes are permitted for this run. A special needs table will be set-up at the pool gate.

Each age group will have a colored swim cap for quick identification. The Splash and Dash swim caps are required to be worn during the swim. Goggles are permitted, but no other swim aides are allowed. Swimmers can use any style stroke in the pool. They are allowed to hang on to the side or lane ropes to rest, but can’t move forward.

### Run Course

The Run Course is an out and back run on closed, City of Berea multi-use trail for all age groups.
After athletes have gathered their running gear, they begin the run, and will exit the transition area at “RUN OUT,” and begin the last leg of the Aquathlon. A water station will be located at the gate leading to the run course, and a second water station will be on the course. At the end of the run, the athletes will come down the finish line chute to the roars of the crowd, great music, and each will receive a race medal and have their picture taken for those who swim and run for sponsors.

**Course Map Ages 7 -10 (INSERT MAP PDF)**

**Couse Map ages 11-15 (INSERT PDF MAP)**
