---
layout: page
title:  "Rules - Berea Splash and Dash"
date:   2015-04-08
image: "bg"
permalink: rules/
---
The purpose of the following rules is to insure that participants in Daniel Boone Splash and Dash is to complete the course safely, and have a good time doing so! We feel all children who can complete the course are winners! USA Triathlon insures this event, and has recommended these rules for safety reasons. The Race Director may disqualify anyone who does not comply.

I. **OUTSIDE ASSISTANCE**: Parents cannot assist children during any portion of the event. Trained volunteers are stationed throughout the course to lend any assistance needed to insure participant safety and well-being.

II. **COURSE**: Each participant must complete the entire prescribed course in order to be eligible to receive age level awards. Volunteers and signage are available throughout the course to show the way, but participants bear the responsibility for being familiar with the course.

III. **SWIM**: Any stroke is allowed, there is no disqualification for style or stopping. You can‘t move forward while resting on the wall or pool lines. Certified lifeguards from The City of Berea Pool staff will be on hand.

IV. **TRANSITION AREA**: All equipment must be placed in designated area before 8:30 AM. From 8:30 until the final athlete is out on the run course ONLY PARTICIPANTS and volunteers will be allowed in the transition area. 

V. **RUN**: Participants must run or walk the complete running course.

VI. **SPORTSMANSHIP**: Infraction by participants or parents of any of the rules or exhibition of unsportsmanlike conduct will result in disqualification. This includes the use of profanity or rudeness before, during, or after the race.

VII. **RACE NUMBERS**: Race numbers will be marked on each athlete’s body during Registration. All athletes must have their bib number pinned on their race shirt during the bike and run, and wear it. You can also use a race belt with your race number attached.

VIII. **TIMING**: Each athlete must be wearing their running bib number when they cross the finish line to complete the race. At the finish line volunteers will collect the pull tab on the bottom of the bib number and their ankle chip.

IF YOU OR YOUR PARENTS HAVE ANY QUESTIONS PLEASE CONTACT RACE DIRECTOR Peter H. Hackbert at hackbertp@berea.edu OR ASK DURING THE MANDATORY PRE-RACE MEETING AT 8:15AM ON RACE DAY
