---
layout: page
title:  "Race Day - Berea Splash and Dash"
date:   2015-04-08
image: "bg"
permalink: raceday/
---
There will be **NO RACE DAY REGISTRATION for Daniel Boone Splash and Dash**. On-line registration closes on **Wednesday June 15, 2016 at midnight**. We will take in-person registrations on Thursday - Tuesday (June 16-21) at City of Berea Pool packet pick-up until the race is sold out. There is a late fee ($5 added per child) for registrations after on-line closes. 

**Children must be accompanied by their parent at packet pick-up.**
You will be required to purchase an annual youth membership ($10) to USA Triathlon. You can purchase it by registering for this race. Or you can [purchase an annual youth membership](https://public.usatriathlon.org/). There are no refunds if weather cancels all or part of the race. A canceled race will not be rescheduled.

### Race Morning

After parking, parents should escort their child with all their Aquathlon gear to the City of Berea Pool. Signs will direct you. You must check in with our race volunteers.

### Body Marking

After checking in race morning, your child should go to the body marking area (signs will direct you). Your child’s race number (found in race packet) will be marked on his/her leg and arm. These markings will be used to identify your child at the start of the swim. Your child will also have a timing chip attached to their left ankle. This is not removed until they cross the finish line.

### Pre-Race Meeting
	There is a MANDATORY pre-race meeting for all athletes at **8:15 AM** in the transition area.

### Race Start
We will be starting the Splash and Dash by age groups beginning with the youngest, **7yr-8yr, at 8:30 AM**. Athletes will be called waves - by their age group - from the staging area to the swim start 15- minutes prior to their start time.

  **First Wave** - 8:30 AM 7-9 age group (GOLD)

  **Second Wave** - 10-11 age group (BLUE)
  Will start when previous wave have departed the swim, and headed to the transition.

  **Third Wave** - 12-13 age group (RED)
  Will start when previous wave have departed the swim,  and headed to the transition.

  **Fourth Wave** - 14-15 age group (GREEN)
  Will start when previous wave have departed the swim,  and headed to the transition.

### What's a Transition Area?

In the sport of Aquathlon, the Transition Area is like the hub in the center of a wheel with the swim and run like wheel spokes. The athlete passes through the Transition Area once in the event. In the Transition Area the athlete moves from swimming to running. The transition area for Splash and Dash located below the pool in the rear parking lot, and is designated by signs, and brightly colored fencing.

### What happened in the Transition Area?

##### Before the race:

Individual spots will be assigned and numbered. Each athlete will be in an area designated for their age group. This is where the athlete removes any swim gear (goggles, swim cap) quickly with a towel to dry off, and obtains shoes/socks, shirt, shorts, and other needed gear needed on the run. Athletes should have their equipment set up at least 30- minutes before the 8:30 AM start time. To make sure everyone has room in the transition area, each athlete should use only the minimum amount of space required to place their gear. Parents are allowed in the transition area to help their child until 8:30 AM.

##### During the race:

From 8:30 AM until the final athlete is on the run course no parents or guardians are permitted in the Transition Area, except for those with special needs. If you have special needs please designate that during check-in. Volunteers will be present to assist the athletes and to restrict access. This restriction is to ensure a safe and enjoyable experience for all of the athletes.

##### After the race:

After completing the race, athletes will not be allowed back into the transition area until the final competitor is out on the run course. Volunteers will be present in the transition area. To remove the gear from the Transition Area you may be asked to show a race number.

### Tips for the Transition Area
Get to the race venue early so that you can set up your young athlete’s Transition Area location.

- Complete your Transition Area setup by 8:15 AM. There will be a MANDATORY pre-race meeting at 8:15 AM., after which the 7-9 year old age group will be lined up in the pool area.
- Bring 2 towels, one of which should be old. Put the old towel on the ground at your child’s location and place his/her race running stuff on it. The other towel is for drying after the swim.
- It is recommended that you have a full water bottle there so your athlete can grab a quick drink before exiting the Transition Area.
- The time spent in the Transition Area counts towards the overall time so it should be as fast as is reasonable, but not so fast that your athlete forgets to tie his/her shoes.
- Volunteers will be present in the Transition Area to assist athletes during the race so we ask that parents please stay out for the safety of the participants.
The Splash and Dash is sanctioned by (insert USAT LOGO here)
