---
layout: page
title:  "F.A.Q. - Berea Splash and Dash"
date:   2015-04-08
image: "bg"
permalink: faq/
---
### What is a Youth Aquathlon?  

An Aquathlon is a smaller version of a Triathlon, one of the fastest-growing sports in the world. The youth Aquathlon is an entry event for youth and communities to experience and experiment with this trend. There is no better way for a child to experience the benefits of a healthy lifestyle focused on daily exercise and good nutrition. Every Aquathlon consists of 3 components – swimming, running, and transition. At the Daniel Boone Splash and Dash youth athletes will only race against other children in their same age group. We will utilize a time trial start in The City of Berea City Pool, 8-lane pool meaning each racer will enter the pool one at a time. As they complete their swim, they will get out of the pool, and jog down to the transition area to begin the run portion of the race. The run is the final portion of the race. Computerized timing chips are used to track each participant throughout each part of the race.

### Why participate?

The event exposes and educates youth to the healthy, multisport, active lifestyle, all while being involved in a fun, exciting, and safe atmosphere! It will really help you to “get your feet wet!”
The event engages Central Kentucky youth athletes to activities that expand their recreational activities and add value to their educational opportunities.
The event creates an opportunity to meet friends and other youth athletes who are interested and also engage in the multisport lifestyle!
The event requires less equipment required compared to that of a triathlon since a Splash and Dash (An Aquathlon) does not require a bike.

### What gear do I need for the Aquathlon?
Wear your swimsuit, and if you want, you can wear goggles. You are required to wear your Daniel Boone Splash and Dash swim cap during the swim. You will need a bright towel, running shoes, socks, and some running shorts if you don’t want to run in your swim suit. A visor or cap is optional for the run. So are sunglasses.  You can bring a water bottle with water or your favorite training liquid.
At packet pick-up, you will receive your race shirt that you wear on the run course. You will also get a number that should be pinned on the front of your race shirt. Don’t forget to bring both to the race! Your parents may want to pack a change of clothes for you after the race, but that is optional too. Athletes in the 13-14-year-old group can wear their tri suit on the swim and run. They will need to wear their race number either on a race belt or race shirt.

### What are the actual race distances?

 7-10 years old – 100-meter swim, 1-kilometer run course

 11-15 years old - 200-meter swim, 2 –kilometer run course

### How old do I have to be?
The Minimum RACE AGE (the child’s age as of 12/31/15) is 6- years old. On the other end of the spectrum, anyone turning 15 before December 31/2017, will not be allowed to race. Age guidelines are established by USA Triathlon.

### Can I really complete an Aquathlon?

Race distances are set by USA Triathlon and designed to be challenging, yet achievable – even for first-timers. The word triathlon can scare people into thinking it is something they could never do. Plain and simple, if your child can swim a few or more laps in a pool, and ride their bike for 20 minutes without stopping, they can successfully complete a kid’s triathlon. If they cannot do this now, there still may be time to set some goals and to get ready to race.

### Who is putting on the race?

The Daniel Boone Splash and Dash is the idea of the EPG Program and the City of Berea Trail Town Committee. These two groups had members that are experienced triathletes and see the value of living a healthy lifestyle. Through the combined efforts of the City of Berea Trail Town Committee, the special event team has recruited some of the most knowledgeable triathletes and race veterans in the area to make this a fun, safe, and exciting event for the kids. This includes Sam Dick, race Director of The Lexington Kid’s Legacy Tri, a sanctioned USA Triathlon race, which will be the training site for special event Splash and Dash team. That means USA Triathlon has reviewed the Splash and Dash course layout, emergency precautions, and safety to make this sanctioned.

The Daniel Boone Splash and Dash team is currently executing a Signature and Lead Sponsor fundraising program for the event. The Splash and Dash team is also executing a community fundraising model to secure youth sponsorship so that all youth can gain entry in the event. The idea for the youth scholarship sponsorships emerged from blending of the ethics and values taught to Berea College EPG Program students and the grant awarded by the ownership of the Holiday Inn Express in recognition for the contributions made by EPG students to the formation and certification of the City of Berea Trails and the State of Kentucky Trail Town. The Splash and Dash is intended to demonstrate to the Berea community, to the small business establishments and the Berea Tourism Commission that there are latent community assets of value to out-of-towners that can be showcased to encourage out-of-towners to come and engage in the  Berea community.

### When can I pick up my race number and packet?

All participants should come to the City of Berea Pool on June 14 or June 22 at 6:00pm in Berea at the City of Berea Pool. These are the only scheduled times for packet and race number pick-up, though we will try to accommodate special exceptions from out-of-county families. There will NOT be any packet pick-up or registration on Race Day unless approved by Race Director. There are no refunds if weather cancels all or part of the race. A canceled race will not be rescheduled.

### What should I eat the night before the race?

While every person is different, most experts do NOT suggest a heavy meal the morning of a race. Every racer will need a lot of energy, so a traditional pasta dinner or another meal with lots of carbohydrates and protein is quite common the day before racing. Of course, you know your body and normal eating habits better than anyone. It is always safe to follow those. The only thing almost everyone agrees on . . . it is NOT a good time to try a new food for the first time.

### What should I eat for breakfast on race day?

Again, it is best to listen to your body and to do what feels right. It also depends on what time you get up and what time you are racing. Greasy, heavy food and milk are generally recipes for upset stomachs. A banana, orange, apple, bagel with peanut butter, or grapefruit are all reasonable, but again, it’s different for each child. One thing you do NOT want to do is skip breakfast on Race Day. You will need all the energy you can get to complete the race.

### When should I show up for the race?

Early! The parking will open at 7:00 AM on race day. Your parents will be asked to park in the Community School parking lot, and then racers check-in at the Pool area. After checking in, you will be body marked with your race number and age. Next, you can set up in your transition area. Parents and other non-racers are not allowed in the transition area after 8:30 AM. There will be trained volunteers available to help the youth if needed. There will be a MANDATORY pre-race meeting of all athletes in the transition at 8:15 AM.  The first swimmers will start at 8:30 AM.

### Will there be prizes?
Every youth participant will receive a finisher’s medal when they cross the finish line

### Will there be traffic on the route?

No, the entire race will be held within the park.

### Will there be aid stations on the course?

Yes – there will be one aid station on the run and food at the finish line. We encourage athletes to bring a water bottle to keep in transition for after the swim.

###  What will be offered at the aid stations?

Water and Gatorade. There will be fruit, cookies and drinks at the finish line.

### What happens at the end of the event?

 There will be free food and drinks for participants. There will be photos. There is an awards ceremony following the race.  We encourage all athletes and spectators to stay around for the awards ceremony!
